---
layout: single
title:  "RTL to GDSII Flow"
---
<script type="module">
  import mermaid from "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mermaid@10/dist/mermaid.esm.min.mjs";
  mermaid.initialize({ startOnLoad: true });
</script>

## RTL to GDSII Flow

<div class="mermaid">
flowchart TD
    A1["RTL<br>SDC"]:::light --> A2["Synthesis"]:::light
    A2 --> A3["DFT Insertion"]:::light
    A3 --> A4["Pre STA<br>Equivalence Check<br>Timing Constraint Analysis<br>Design Rule Constraint Check<br>Power Analysis<br>Low Power Rule Check"]:::light
    A4 --> A5["Physical Design"]:::dark

    A5 --> B1["DRC<br>LVS<br>DFM"]:::light
    A5 --> A6["RC Extraction"]:::light
    A6 --> A8["Static IR Drop Analysis<br>Dynamic IR Drop Analysis<br>Signal EM"]:::light
    A6 --> A7["Post STA<br>Equivalence Check<br>Timing Constraint Analysis<br>Design Rule Constraint Check<br>Power Analysis<br>Low Power Rule Check"]:::light

    classDef light fill:#f2f2f2,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px;
    classDef dark fill:#999,stroke:#222,color:#fff,stroke-width:1px;
</div>


## RTL-to-GDS Flow: A Closer Look

Most RTL-to-GDS flow diagrams you see online are pretty simplified, so I made one with a bit more detail—closer to what design engineers actually work with in real projects. It reflects the kind of tasks we deal with day to day, not just the basic textbook version.

I did include Physical Design in the flow, but didn’t go into the details yet. Since that’s the part I mainly work on, I’m planning to cover the full PD flow in a separate post. The overall structure of PD is already quite standardized, but the real flows we use at work are much more complex. There are tons of custom scripts running before and after the main EDA tool commands—things like setup, checks, formatting, and post-processing—that make the whole flow work smoothly.

That goes for other parts too—like synthesis, DFT, and verification. These stages also use a lot of automated scripts, usually written in `.tcl`, to manage and connect each step of the flow.

In the next post, I’ll walk through the Physical Design flow and give a simple overview of how it works in practice.
